operator: support storing SSO connector client secret in a Kubernetes Secret (#46699)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/admin-guides/infrastructure-as-code/teleport-operator/secret-lookup.mdx

---
title: Looking up values from secrets
description: How to store sensitive values in a Kubernetes Secret and have the operator look them up.
---

## How it works

> Some Teleport resources might contain sensitive values. Since Teleport 16.4, select CR fields can reference an existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Teleport resources might contain sensitive values. Select CR fields can reference an existing
```

Kubernetes secret and the operator will retrieve the value from the secret when reconciling.

Currently only the GithubConnector and OIDCConnector `client_secret` field support secret lookup.

## Prerequisites

To follow this guide you need:

- A running Teleport cluster

> - [A functional Teleport Kubernetes Operator setup](../teleport-operator.mdx#setting-up-the-operator)

Reviewer 2: We should be consistent with how we capitalize "Operator". Sometimes it's capitalized on this page and sometimes it's in lowercase.

- Kubernetes rights to edit CRs and Secrets in the operator namespace
- `kubectl` installed locally and configured for your Kubernetes cluster
- A working GitHub or OIDC connector you want to manage with the operator
- `tctl` and `tsh` installed and logged in the Teleport cluster

## Important Considerations

Even when you store sensitive values out of CRs, the CRs must still be considered as critical as

> the Kubernetes secrets themselves. Many CRs configure Teleport RBAC, someone with CR edition rights can become
> Teleport administrator and retrieve the sensitive values from Teleport.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Kubernetes secrets themselves. Many CRs configure Teleport RBAC. Someone with permissions to edit CRs can become a
Teleport administrator and retrieve the sensitive values from Teleport.
```

The secret lookup feature has two limitations you must take into account before configuring it:
- for performance reasons, the secret is not watched. A secret content change is not immediately reflected on
  the resource. To force the operator to use the new secret value, you must trigger a reconciliation by editing the CR,
  restarting the operator, or waiting for the next full sync (every 12 hours).

> - for security reasons, the operator does allow lookup from arbitrary secrets. The secret must be annotated with

Reviewer: does -> does not?
```suggestion
- for security reasons, the operator doesn't allow lookup from arbitrary secrets. The secret must be annotated with
```

  `resources.teleport.dev/allow-lookup-from-cr`. Possible values are `*`, or a comma-separated list of CR names.

## Step 1/3. Create a Kubernetes Secret containing the sensitive value

For this guide, the sensitive value we want to store is the GitHub connector client secret.

Create the following `secret.yaml` manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: teleport-github-connector
  annotations:
    # This annotation allows any CR to look up this secret
    resources.teleport.dev/allow-lookup-from-cr: "*"
# We use stringData instead of data for the sake of simplicity, both are OK
stringData:
  githubSecret: my-github-secret-value
```

If <Var name="teleport-iac" /> is your Teleport Kubernetes Operator namespace, apply the manifest using `kubectl`:

```code
$ kubectl apply -n <Var name="teleport-iac" /> -f secret.yaml
secret/teleport-github-connector created
```

> ## Step 2/3. Create a CR referencing the secret

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 2/3. Create a custom resource referencing the secret
```
Even if this abbreviation is common knowledge for Kubernetes users, I think it makes sense to be explicit.

Create the following `github-connector.yaml` manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: resources.teleport.dev/v3
kind: TeleportGithubConnector
metadata:
  name: github
spec:
  # This value will be looked up from the secret. `teleport-github-connector` is the secret name and `githubSecret` is the secret key.
  client_secret: "secret://teleport-github-connector/githubSecret"
  # Replace all the values below by the ones to work with your github account
  client_id: my-client-id
  display: Github
  redirect_url: "my value"
  teams_to_roles:
    - organization: ORG-NAME
      roles:
        - access
      team: team-name
```

> Apply the manifest, in the same namespace as the operator and the secret:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apply the manifest in the same namespace as the operator and the secret:
```

```code
$ kubectl apply -n <Var name="teleport-iac" /> -f github-connector.yaml
teleportgithubconnector.resources.teleport.dev/github created
```

## Step 3/3. Validate the resource was created

The operator indicates if the reconciliation worked on the CR `status` field.
Run the following command to know if it worked:

```code
$ kubectl get -n -n <Var name="teleport-iac" /> teleportgithubconnector github -o yaml

apiVersion: resources.teleport.dev/v3
kind: TeleportGithubConnector
# [...]
status:
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2022-07-25T16:15:52Z"
    message: Teleport resource has the Kubernetes origin label.
    reason: OriginLabelMatching
    status: "True"
    type: TeleportResourceOwned
  - lastTransitionTime: "2022-07-25T17:08:58Z"
    message: 'Teleport Resource was successfully reconciled, no error was returned by Teleport.'
    reason: NoError
    status: "True"
    type: SuccessfullyReconciled
```

If everything worked, all condition statuses should be `True`. Of some status is `False`, the message and the reason
will give you more information about what failed.

> Finally, validate the resource has been properly created in Teleport by doing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, validate the resource has been properly created in Teleport:
```
